[Link to Original](https://hyperliquid.gitbook.io/hyperliquid-docs/trading/index-perpetual-contracts)

[![](https://www.gitbook.com/cdn-
cgi/image/width=36,dpr=2,height=36,fit=contain,format=auto/https%3A%2F%2F3868097438-files.gitbook.io%2F~%2Ffiles%2Fv0%2Fb%2Fgitbook-
x-
prod.appspot.com%2Fo%2Fspaces%252FyUdp569E6w18GdfqlGvJ%252Ficon%252FsIAjqhKKIUysM08ahKPh%252FHL-
logoSwitchDISliStat.png%3Falt%3Dmedia%26token%3Da81fa25c-0510-4d97-87ff-3fb8944935b1)![](https://www.gitbook.com/cdn-
cgi/image/width=24,dpr=2,height=24,fit=contain,format=auto/https%3A%2F%2F3868097438-files.gitbook.io%2F~%2Ffiles%2Fv0%2Fb%2Fgitbook-
x-
prod.appspot.com%2Fo%2Fspaces%252FyUdp569E6w18GdfqlGvJ%252Ficon%252FsIAjqhKKIUysM08ahKPh%252FHL-
logoSwitchDISliStat.png%3Falt%3Dmedia%26token%3Da81fa25c-0510-4d97-87ff-3fb8944935b1)Hyperliquid
Docs](/hyperliquid-docs/)

Search

⌃K

[About Hyperliquid](/hyperliquid-docs/)

[Getting started](/hyperliquid-docs/getting-started)

[Technical overview](/hyperliquid-docs/technical-overview)

[Trading](/hyperliquid-docs/trading)

[Assets](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/assets)

[Contract specifications](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/contract-specifications)

[Fees](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/fees)

[Order book](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/order-book)

[Order types](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/order-types)

[Take profit and stop loss orders (TP/SL)](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/take-
profit-and-stop-loss-orders-tp-sl)

[Margining](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/margining)

[Liquidations](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/liquidations)

[Funding](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/funding)

[Insurance fund](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/insurance-fund)

[Auto deleveraging](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/auto-deleveraging)

[Robust price indices](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/robust-price-indices)

[Self-trade prevention](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/self-trade-prevention)

[Portfolio graphs](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/portfolio-graphs)

[Index perpetual contracts](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/index-perpetual-
contracts)

[Uniswap perpetuals](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/uniswap-perpetuals)

[Hyperps](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/hyperps)

[Market making](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/market-making)

[Vaults](/hyperliquid-docs/vaults)

[Points](/hyperliquid-docs/points)

[Referrals](/hyperliquid-docs/referrals)

[Open interest rewards](/hyperliquid-docs/open-interest-rewards)

[Historical data](/hyperliquid-docs/historical-data)

[Risks](/hyperliquid-docs/risks)

[Roadmap](/hyperliquid-docs/roadmap)

[Testnet](/hyperliquid-docs/testnet)

[Audits](/hyperliquid-docs/audits)

[Brand kit](/hyperliquid-docs/brand-kit)

For developers

[API](/hyperliquid-docs/for-developers/api)

[Powered By
GitBook](https://www.gitbook.com/?utm_source=content&utm_medium=trademark&utm_campaign=yUdp569E6w18GdfqlGvJ)

# Index perpetual contracts

Index contracts track a formula instead of a spot asset price as the
underlying index, but otherwise function exactly the same as normal perpetual
contracts.

Instead of tracking the median price across a set of liquid CEXs, index
perpetual contracts require the validators to periodically publish the value
of the index formula to the Hyperliquid L1. The median of these reported
values are then used in place of the spot oracle formula to compute funding
rates.

###

 **NFTI-USD**

`NFTI-USD` is an index of blue-chip NFT collections, including Bored Ape Yacht
Club, Mutant Ape Yacht Club, Azuki, DeGods, Pudgy Penguins, and Milady Maker.

The index is a 3-minute EMA of the aggregate floor price. The aggregate floor
price is sum of the floor price of each collection, with BAYC divided by 10.
Floor prices are computed by aggregating OpenSea and Blur. CryptoPunks were
not included because they predate the NFT standard and are not listed on these
marketplaces.

Floor prices are converted to USDT using the ETH-USDT spot oracle price

`Index = 3 minute ema of [(BAYC floor price / 10) + (MAYC floor price) +
(Azuki floor price) + (DeGods floor price) + (Pudgy Penguins floor price) +
(Milady Maker floor price)] / 10000 `

###

FRIEND-USD

`FRIEND-USD` is the first index perpetual contract listed by Hyperliquid.

Previously based on community feedback, the top 20 friendtech index rebalanced
biweekly. The top subjects were announced by EOD Monday UTC every other week,
and the rebalance occured at 14:30 UTC on Wednesday every other week. The
scale factor was set at time of rebalance so that the perp index value has a
continuous change between old and new index definitions. The criterion for
choosing subjects is top 20 subjects by price, 5k twitter followers, and
filtering out outliers in trading activity and number of holders. If the
community detects manipulation in a pending index change, the criterion may be
adjusted accordingly.

Beginning October 4, the`FRIEND-USD`index will track the average one-share buy
price of the middle 8 subjects of the following 20 accounts: 0xCaptainLevi,
Dingalingts, 0xRacerAlt, HsakaTrades, HerroCrypto, HanweChang, Christianeth,
0xLawliette, CL207, Cryptoyieldinfo, CapitalGrug, iloveponzi, cobie,
sayinshallah, pokeepandaa, pranksy, VentureCoinist, 0xBreadguy, saliencexbt,
blknoiz06.

From September 13-October 4, the `FRIEND-USD` index tracked the following
accounts: 0xRacerAlt, HsakaTrades, 0xCaptainLevi, HerroCrypto, cobie, CL207,
0xLawliette, blknoiz06, 0xSisyphus, Christianeth, Banks, Cryptoyieldinfo,
lBattleRhino, CapitalGrug, saliencexbt, zhusu, basedkarbon, RookieXBT,
xcurveth, Pancakesbrah. From September 13-20, the median price of the above 20
subjects was used instead of the average one-share buy price of the middle 8
subjects. The median price was scaled by `0.002469` to ensure a continuous
transition from the previous index oracle (dated August 23-September 13).

From August 23-September 13, the `FRIEND-USD` index tracked: ‘cobie’,
‘HsakaTrades’, ‘0xRacerAlt’, ‘Banks’, ‘zhusu’, ‘0xSisyphus’, ‘blknoiz06’,
‘RookieXBT’, ‘gainzy222’, ‘xcurveth’, ‘inversebrah’, ‘shrimppepe’,
‘0xLawliette’, ‘dingalingts’, ‘BigDickBull69’, ‘zachxbt’, ‘izebel_eth’,
‘loomdart’, ‘icebergy_’, and ‘saliencexbt’. The median price is scaled by
`0.00431` to ensure a continuous transition from the previous TVL oracle.

The contract from which the index is derived can be found here:
[https://basescan.org/address/0xcf205808ed36593aa40a44f10c7f7c2f67d4a4d4](https://basescan.org/address/0xcf205808ed36593aa40a44f10c7f7c2f67d4a4d4).

Friendtech key prices are converted to USDT prices based on the robust CEX
median ETH/USDT mid price.

​

[PreviousPortfolio graphs](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/portfolio-
graphs)[NextUniswap perpetuals](/hyperliquid-docs/trading/uniswap-perpetuals)

Last modified 30d ago

On this page

NFTI-USD

FRIEND-USD

